# planet-zoo-compatibility-finder
An algorithm designed to take in a list of animals from the game [Planet Zoo](https://www.planetzoogame.com/) and their compatibility ratings with each other taken from [this list](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/16ZLLyfAVrQwxqENqkYrrEvvicrX536iy-kZOWuEUjOA/edit#gid=1594290468) created by BBarbeito, then recursively finds mulitple lists of animals above a certain compatibility rating entered by the user.


## Installation
1. Install [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
2. Clone repository to folder using ```git clone``` or download the files as a zip

## How to Use
1. Navigate to the repository in your command line and run the command ```python compatibilityFinder.py```
2. The command line will ask if you want to import your own data or use the data already generated by the file (all animals in the base game and dlc).
    - If you choose to import your own data, data must be in the format of a comma seperated value (csv) file. Every line is a new animal with the name as the first value, and the compatibility rating for each animal on the list following the name, separated by commas. (Note: The list must have exactly n by n values plus the names)
    - Example: Aardvarks have a compatibility rating of 7 with African Buffalo and 3 with the African Penguin. African Buffalo have a compatibility rating of 7 with Aardvark and 3 with the African Penguin. African Penguin have a compatibility rating of 3 with both the Aardvark and the African Buffalo.

    ```Aardvark,,7,3```

    ```African_Buffalo,7,,3```
    
    ```African_Penguin,3,3,```
3. The command line will then ask you what level of compatibility you want to find animals for. Enter a value between 0 and 8 and press enter. (Note: if you use a value less than 5, it will most likely take multiple minutes to find the lists).
4. The command line will then ask you what animal you want to find compatibility for. Enter the number associated with the animal you are trying to find compatibility for and press enter. EX: if you want to find compatibility for the Aardvark, enter 1.
5. The program will then use this information to find lists of animals above your entered compatiblity rating. It will print multiple lists, starting with the longest, in which all animals on the list will be above the entered compatibility rating. This means if you enter a 7, all animals on the list will be compatibility 7 or above with one another.
6. Lastly, the command line will ask if you wish to output this data to a file. Sometimes, especially with long lists, it is easier to view the data in a file rather than in the command line.